+++
title = "1. DK Overview"
weight = 1
[extra] 
map = "images/10_overview.webp"
+++

- Droomen Knoll is a ancient fairy ruin, now the base of a band of crookhorns
  spying on a nearby settlement.
- A total of approximately 5,000gp worth of monetary treasure is present.

### Location

Choose which settlement PCs will start in and locate this adventure somewhere in
the vicinity. For example, in hex 0809 (near Lankshorn), hex 1111 (near Dreg),
or hex 1206 (near Prigwort). The Referee may either require PCs to travel to the
adventure site or may start play as they approach the site (Area 1).

## Referee’s Background

### Fairy Keep

Long ago, a fairy keep stood atop a hill in the erstwhile mortal dominion of
Prince Mallowheart (p34) in Dolmenwood. The prince and his frost elf courtiers
visited the keep upon occasion, gathering to feast and make merry. A small
series of dungeons housed prisoners for the entertainment of the prince and his
retinue. As time turned in the mortal world and allegiances and whims in Fairy
shifted, the keep was eventually abandoned. After centuries, it fell into ruin
and was forgotten.

### Crookhorn Spies

In recent weeks, a band of crookhorns has taken up residence in the ruins, using
them as a base of operations to spy on the doings of local folk. They have
instructions to contact corrupt elements in the local constabulary and learn of
their secrets.

### The Prisoner

When the keep was abandoned, one prisoner was left behind - a treacherous frost
elf named Famine-Whistles-Whither, whom Mallowheart condemned to eternal
incarceration in the mortal world. Trapped by magic, the prisoner fell into a
fitful reverie, lost to time and the world.

### Pipes on Droomen Knoll

The crookhorns, exploring the dungeons beneath the keep, awoke the prisoner from
his reverie. He now hopes to escape with the aid of mortals. Fashioning a set of
panpipes from the bones of dungeon vermin, his beautiful, enchanting music now
echoes from the ruins. The crookhorns mockingly accompany his piping with their
own brash melodies, but other mortals may be drawn near to aid the prisoner.

## Hooks

Select one or more of the following hooks to draw PCs into the adventure. When
selecting a hook, consider the interests and inclinations of the players and
their characters. For example, heroically inclined PCs may be drawn in by the
Missing Youth hook, whereas the Fairy Chalice hook may appeal to those of a more
mercenary persuasion.

### Missing Youth

A local human youth of fanciful nature, named Arda Vague, is missing and his
family seeks the PCs’ aid in bringing him home. They report that he spent
several nights in the last week visiting Droomen Knoll, where he said he heard
enchanting music. The family fear he has been kidnapped by fairies and provide
PCs with a pair of cold iron shortswords, in addition to directions to the
knoll. They offer PCs 200gp for the safe return of Arda. In reality: Arda has
been captured by the crookhorns lairing in the ruins on Droomen Knoll.

### Crookhorn Sightings

Two humans of the local constabulary contact PCs with a covert mission to aid
the local settlement. Sergeant Marge Bregson informs PCs of reports of
crookhorns snooping around the ruins atop Droomen Knoll. The settlement leaders
will pay 200gp to the party to scout out the knoll and report back on any
crookhorn activities. Marge’s companion, constable Rodger Burl, clarifies that
the reports are probably nonsense. In reality: The reports of the crookhorns are
true. Rodger Burl meets regularly with them at the settlement’s outskirts at
night. He and several other constables have been corrupted by the crookhorns’
master, the Nag-Lord, Atanuwë (p45).

### The Fairy Chalice

PCs come into possession of a page from an old book describing the ancient fairy
keep atop Droomen Knoll. The page describes a pellucidium chalice of great
beauty (and, presumably, material value) hidden within a magical pool in a
secret hall beneath the keep. The cryptic note “Fairy ice and mortal blood”
appears at the bottom of the page. In reality: The page refers to Area 13, where
the chalice can indeed be found. The cryptic note refers to the means of
clearing the ice protecting the chalice.
