+++
title = "2. DK Surface"
weight = 2
+++

## 1. Approaching the Knoll

Forest hill (looms above treetops). Pale blue mallows (underfoot). Slender
silver birches (grow on slopes).

### Cacophonous Music

Drifts from Ruined Keep (carried by breeze). Keening pipes (thin, eerie). Drums
and trumpet (raucous). Brash cries (snatches of Gaffe).

**Listening:** The eerie pipe music conjures mournful visions of Dolmenwood in
deep winter.

### Ruined Keep Atop Knoll

Piles of collapsed stone (covered with moss and ivy). 1 tower mostly intact (20′
high, leaning, ivy-clad). Walled central courtyard (10′ high walls, parapet
carved with icicle designs). Pointed archway (intact, leads to Area 5, spires
shaped like frozen waves). Firelight and smoke (from within).

**Carelessly approaching:** 2-in-6 chance of being spotted by the lookout in the
tower (Area 4), who raises the alarm.

**Touching the stone:** Ice cold, regardless of season.

**At night:** Dim light can be seen flickering at the tower’s summit (Area 4).

## 2. Collapsed Tower

Great mound of rubble (covered with moss and ivy). 2′ wide hole (amid rubble,
leads down).

**Examining the hole:** A tunnel, reeking of guano, descends 15′ to a chamber
below (Area 10). Black feathers are scat- tered around the hole.

**Noise and odours:** Loud noise or meaty smells attract 1d5 of the stirges that
roost below (see Area 10) to fly out of the hole in search of prey.

## 3. Clematis Thicket

Thicket of vines (dense, 10′ radius). Purple flowers (sweet aroma).

**Within the thicket:** Characters pushing into the thicket discover a back
entrance to Area 5.

## 4. Lookout Tower

Partly collapsed (leaning, 20′ high). Open doorway (no door). Spiral staircase
(leads upwards). Open upper floor (battlements).

### Grerta - Crookhorn Lookout

Lean crookhorn woman (hunched, heavy horns). 1 large tusk (drooling, distended
lip). Bracer of cooking pans (bent). Hooded lantern (dimmed). Peering from tower
(sporadically).

**Reaction:** Shocked. Raises alarm by clanging pans.

**Speech:** Ragged whining. Gaffe.

**Combat stats:** Crookhorn (DMB). 6 HP. Wields pans (1d4).

## 5. Walled Courtyard

Blazing campfire (smoky). Roasting meats (deer, wood- grue shank). Provisions
(arrayed around the fire). Rank bedding (piles of fur).

**Stairs to Area 6:** Keening pipe music and snoring drift from below. Open
stairway descends 15′.

**Provisions:** 12 bottles of rancid ale. 20 smokes of Burglar’s Blend (DPB). A
string of slimy sausages.

**Searching the bedding:** Save Versus Doom or contract a crookhorn disease
(DMB). A brass statuette of a dancing nymph (50gp) is hidden in one bed.

### Bert, Drogba, Grip, Scrag - Partying Crookhorns

Gangly (6′ tall). Groggy (drunken). Striped pantaloons (billowy). Ragged armour
(chain and leather). Pranc- ing and drinking (around campfire). Playing raucous
music (drums, trumpets). Mocking jeers (“faster, faster Skinny-Whistle!”).

**Reaction:** Make a Reaction Roll (see Encounters, DPB).

**Speech:** Brash bleating. Gaffe. Bert and Scrag speak crude Woldish.

**Knowledge:** Leader (Grobnott) broods in the dungeons below (Area 7). Someone
spied a “flock of mangy owls” outside (the stirges in Area 10).

**Combat stats:** Crookhorn (DMB). HP 4, 7, 9, 10. Spears (1d6). –1 to Attack
Rolls and Saving Throws due to inebriation.
