+++
title = "Buried Bastion"
weight = 1
[extra] 
map = "images/10_overview.webp"
npc = "npc/10_bastion.md"
+++

_For centuries, this old fort protected the county from bandits and monsters
wander- ing the swamps. But it was built upon an un- stable foundation of porous
limestone. One day, a huge sinkhole opened beneath the fort and it collapsed in
on itself. Trapped be- low was a notoriously cruel bandit, Barfrain the Black,
and a detachment of sentinels left to guard him. They all starved to death, and
the unnaturally hateful spirit of Barfrain became a vengeful wraith. The
skeletons of the guards are animated by its presence and attack any
trespassers._

![Bastion Sideview](/images/10_side.webp)

## 1. Mouth of the Gecko Pit

A gaping hole in the ground with a rocky lip encircling it. Moss and lichen grow
on the walls. The area is in- fested with giant geckos. A slanted and slip- pery
ledge tracks down to area 2. There is a 2-in-6 chance of slipping into the water
below.

## 2. Gecko Cave

Giant geckos, capable of scaling the slick walls easily, make use of this cave
as a den. There will be 2d6 geckos here resting, eating, and cooling off. A
search will reveal a half-eaten bandit body with a ruby-hilt- ed dagger (worth
200gp).

## 3. The Long Descent

A 40’ fall down into a pool of murky rain water. At the bottom is a layer of mud
and detritus, and an underwater tunnel. 1d6 giant geckos cling to the walls.

## 4. Gekoda's Lair

Anything big that falls into the pool will get the attention of the gecko
empress "Gekoda" (as the froglings call her). Otherwise she’ll remain in this
grotto, able to sense the movement of anything that swims into her lair. She’ll
try to swallow whole any- thing human-sized or smaller, and take bites from
anything bigger. Out of water, she can also spit a viscous goo from stink sacs
inside of her throat. Her pulsating eggs cover the ceiling and hatch suddenly if
disturbed. Her hide can be made into scalemail +2.

## 5. Verdigris Doors

A motionless skeleton leans against the wall here, clutching a silk bag of gems
(300gp worth). Heavy doors made from brass, now covered in verdigris, are
adorned with bronze cross patterns that seem to be laid flat against the
surface. The doors share a single vertical handle depressed into the seam.
Turning the handle clockwise causes a sharp metal iris to close rapidly,
severing the turner’s hand. A cross on the left door rapidly spins at the same
time. To open the iris, the cross must be rotated back against the internal
spring until it locks in place. The mechanism can be jammed to prevent it from
rotating, disabling the trap. Rotating the handle count- er-clockwise unlocks
the door. The door will swing itself shut if not propped open; there is no way
to open it from the inside. Anyone be- yond the threshold will be trapped inside
until the doors are opened again from the outside.

## 6. Hall of the Damned

A large, dank, stone hall. Water drips through cracks in the sagging ceiling.
When entered, the booming, otherworldly voice of Barfrain echoes the words
“VENGEANCE!”. Four skeletons charge from the end of the hall. Matching brass
doors stand at the end of the hall. Instead of a han- dle, the depressed socket
features a keyhole. If the key from area 11 is inserted and turned
counter-clockwise, an iris closes on the turner's hand. The same rotating cross
mechanism and method to disable. If the key is turned clock- wise, it unlocks
the door. These doors also swing shut with no way to open them from the inside.

## 7. Crumbling Staircase

The west side of the room is dominated by a grand stone stair- case. It crumbles
beneath PC's feet; 1-in- chance to fall through the staircase with 1d falling
damage.

## 8. Collapsed Landing

Another set of stairs was above but it collapsed into a mish-mash of broken
stone and rotting timber. The room is full of rubble. The skeleton of a guard,
crushed by a massive stone, wriggles underneath. A + longbow can be wrenched
from its grip.

## 9. Carrion Chamber

A pair of corpse creep- ers are here eating some dead shrews. They’ll attack
anything that disturbs their meal. If al- lowed to finish, they’ll follow the
scent of any- one nearby and try to ambush them with an extra 1d4 more who
arrive to help.

## 10. Tri-Column Chamber

5+1d4 giant shrews den here, hungry and vicious. They can scurry through the
crumbled stone beams above and will drop down on victims. A dusty crate hides
exquisite paintings worth 500gp.

## 11. Warden’s Chamber

An 8’ tall skeleton wields a two handed sword with a bejeweled pommel worth
800gp. It attacks anything that steps into its chamber. From a chain around its
waist hangs a keyring with dozens of keys (one opens the chest in this room).
One is big and brass (for doors in room 6). In a locked chest is _Shalmaneser’s
Lion,_ and 2500gp.

## 12. Vase Room

On stone pedestals stand 8 vases, sealed with large corks. If a cork is removed
or a vase broken, it unleashes a 10’ cloud of poison gas (1d6 damage, save for
half). In each is a jade statuette of a dancing woman worth 300gp and a
skittering swarm of undead scorpions (2-in-6 chance to get stung trying to
retrieve statue; save vs poison or die).

## 13. Flood Chamber

The heavy wooden doors of this room seem to swell outward. If opened, 10’ of
collected rainwater pour as a deluge through the door, knocking anyone nearby
down. 2d8 giant snakes also splash through the portal and attack anything
nearby.

## 14. Guardian’s Hall

6 skeletons stand guard here, ready to assault any who descend the stairs. One
wears a suit of +1 chainmail, carries a +1 shield a +2 longsword, and the key to
Barfrain’s cell. The walls are adorned with ten bronze masks, each with a
different expres- sion, worth 200gp each. Mounted in an ornate frame is the
Gecko Talisman (see pg 39).

## 15. Barfrain’s Cell

The contorted remains of Barfrain the Black lay behind rusted bars. The _Collar
of Attrition_ is around his neck. The wraith will burst forth from dormancy to
attack anything that approaches the locked cell. Performing last rites on his
remains will release the wraith and skeletons from their un- death. Inside
Barfrain's cell is a hidden com- partment containing a note describing the lo-
cation of his treasure (see handout). The map leads to Barfrain's tree, and the
buried chest containing 4000gp.
